Oh, I know you will. I have no doubts about that. Alright, so I thought it'd be fun, like, I went through the map and realized that, holy shit, like, where you guys would have come out with Blingdenstone was completely out of the ordinary, and I thought, you know, we could just completely retcon it, but then I got inspired over the weekend. I said, wouldn't it be fun if you guys… we actually did the travel log, we're gonna do it as a series of short vignettes. Plenty of… and I… it'll also give you opportunity to buy stuff. Gabe?
Like, along the way, somehow?
Yes, along the way, since… Since you're gonna go…
Mmm.
So… Gabe's, you know, you're gonna go through water deep, Gabe, so just, you know, start thinking what you want to buy.
water?
What?
Alright.
Oh, Waterdeep is along the way. There's a lot in Waterdeep.
Yeah, yeah. Alright, see. By joining? Okay, well…
Do we have a reasonable amount of money now?
Party Inventory has 9,000 gold pieces.
It's like, what, 900 platinum?
Yep.
It's a 10 to 1. What's above Platinum? Titanium. Like, is it like Visa cards? Is it the, like, infinity? I mean, I don't know, like… Turns out D&D money is named after Visa cards, not the other way around.
I think above Platinum would be something magical.
Mithril.
We also have a substantial amount of silver, so I guess about 9,500… gold overall. Oh, I see, it actually adds it up for you, summarizes.
Hmm.
Alrighty.
Then, where's the party inventory? Oh, you go to the inventory tab, and then you have…
Alright.
Platinum is… Pieces is PP. Sorry.
Like, no, I mean… Yeah, you know, it's been a while since I've heard that crack, but yeah, you're absolutely right. It is PP. Alright. Let's go. Alrighty. So… Alright. So this shouldn't take too much time, but I thought it'd be kind of fun for us to do this. What happened in the world while you guys were… Alright! So, It all started on day one, where, you know, you appeared up in the top right-hand corner, from Blingdenstone's surface exit into the Silver Marches, mid-spring, late afternoon. This is where Eldeth, said goodbye. And, and you kept moving on.
I do love this classic-style D&D map.
Oh, you're welcome.
They're pretty.
Yep, yep.
I used to have them in, you know, a big, big map you'd spread out on a table.
Nope. Alright, hold on. Ugh, so, where are we? Okay, so… Oh, sorry, I need to just zoom in, because I have to get all these. All right.
We traveled quite a ways.
Yes, I know.
I'm still having trouble finding out… seeing where we…
We're in the top right.
Top right.
Yes.
Oops.
Yes, you did. But, you know, it's not… now, you know, it's not, it's always, you know, okay, so, You kind of went down… down here, And, As you're walking through this area, you sort of see how this whole area has been destroyed and torn up by barbarian hordes that happened after the War of the Giants. You see burned hamlets, a broken standing stone. Tempus shrine… You also see a refugee family. With a hand cart heading south, three generations, one ox, no grandfather, they share the road with you, and… Do you offer… Joe, Thorin, do you offer anything to the family, or just let them keep going down the way?
Wait, wait, why, why, why me?
I'm asking you, or Ben, do you perform any rite for the Burned Hamlet or the Tempus shrine?
The shrine is of interest to me. Do I… I don't think I know anything about this, particular,
Yeah, I mean, do I feel any affinity to them specifically? I mean…
No, no, I'm just, you know…
I mean, I would, but my character, you know…
I perform, you know, a basic reverence. I don't like to see shrines defiled.
Alright. Okay. Zalthir, do you just, do you just… you just keep… you're… you're just, like, I guess, completely focused on getting stuff done?
I, I…
Sure, I'm just supportive.
Supportive, that's all.
Is there anything that leaps out at it, particularly as I pass by, that would attract my closer attention?
No. Alright.
then I genuflect and mutter blessing and continue trotting, I guess.
Yeah, so we won't spend too much time about trying to figure out how this is. For some reason, you decided to go to Mirabar, which is a dwarven mining city at the city of the Silver Marches. Smoke and red light from the forages are visible from miles out. As you're walking through, what you notice is the whole area is unusually quiet. In a register the war doesn't account for. As you're walking about, one of the locals at a warehouse mentions that bears are…
too quiet?
Well, I mean, bears are fewer this year, pixies haven't sung in the sown lands, my grandmother says weather, I'm not certain.
Hmm, I spent all weekend, just across the way from the Fey, so I'm a little suspicious.
You're right, so you decide to swing by Mirabar. This is a major dwarming mining city, I think, you know. Joe… Thorin would have wanted… would have wanted to come here, see what a big giant… what a big city like this looks.
Yeah, but I don't know what it means to be a dwarf, so I'm kind of a fish out of water, it's very intimidating.
Yeah, yeah, I know. You notice that the city held during the Uthgardt raids, and so, you know, this has been, like, a big theme, which is that after the War of the Dragons, there was the War of the Giants, and… Daz's curiosity finally makes him learn that the biggest thing that happened was the after the War of the Giants, a group of adventurers stole a whole bunch of religious artifacts from the Uthgardt barbarians, and they decided to go on a crusade against all of the civilized areas, quote-unquote, around the Silver Marches. So basically, if you draw a map, a line around here. Was hit by barbarian hordes. Can you see that blue line?
Oh, I can see that now.
Yep.
So what's in the… what's the blue line?
So, what happened during the War of the Giants is a collection of adventures to save the world from a giant apocalypse.
Dragon Apocalypse, right?
No, no, no, Giants, Giants, this was…
Oh, oh, not a huge apocalypse, one caused by the giants.
Yes, yes, one caused by the giants. They went and restored what is known as the Ordning, which is the official hierarchy of giants, and .
I have to… I have to assume that goes from big to small.
Yeah, Storm Giants are at the top, Cloud and Frost… Cloud are our second, Slout and Stone are second, Fire and Frost are… 3rd, and Hill Giants are at the bottom.
What, what kind of giant did we… we explored their, like, castle in the clouds last time?
Cloud Giant.
So, you know, as you arrive, the city has held during the Uthgardt raids. The otter farmsteads did not. You see a large refugee population at the Smith's Gate, sleeping in shifts. The Smith's Quarter never sleeps, you can hear the hammer ring all night from the inns above. Half the orders are for armor for refugee militia. One of the things you do notice is Stroud is everywhere. There's a bronze Stroud-bust at the Smiths Guildhall, a tavern named The Knight Beneath the Knight, a traveling Stroud School polemicist preaching human agency in the corner of the market.
Can there be a giant, like, humanoid-sized bronze chessboard, or something like that? Stroud would appreciate that.
Yeah, there isn't here, but there's… you do notice, a polemicist, a traveling polemicist preaching humage agency in the corner of the market, and the minute he sees you, he tries to recou on the spot, saying, Brother, have you heard the witness call? Are you walking the road for Stroud?
A human?
Yes, and I mean, you could ask him, like, do you want to engage, or do you want to leave him… go, like, I don't have no idea what you're talking about?
I… I… I… My interest is piqued, but I'm worried that this guy is just a nut.
Well, he explains that the Stroud… that he is of the Stroudite school, that it was human agency that produced the outcome, and rejects the hypothesis that it was done by, that this was a… Protanther, decided to not, you know, engage, or… or, like, Protanther let him win, or that Bahamut was behind everything, that this was all about human agency, not… mortal agency, and it asks you, are you… do you stand for mortal agency?
Oh, I, I, I stand for, for strength and luck.
No, he's about to…
spend the next 20 minutes arguing with you? Do you politely walk away, or…
Oh, I'm… I'm completely capable of walking away.
You walk away.
But to you.
Nasty! You get the incense that there's some kind of, like, factionalism in the Bahamut religious cult surrounding the person of Stroud and the events around Protanther that you've just discovered.
Have you noticed that one of Kostadis' greatest threats in the game is a tedious conversation?
No, I'm not… I'm not… I'm… I'm simply saying… you know, I mean, like, you could turn it into an interesting conversation. I'm just saying who this person is. He wants to convert you to the Stroud, the position… the position that humanoid agent… Stroud is proof of humanoid agency.
I, I, I will, I will recruit him to Bahamut.
Oh, here's a… oh, okay. He, he said… he rejects that, because he says that that is the cult of the Bahamutian hypothesis.
But, but… Who, who, who really won in the end? The dragons.
And thus you discover that, you know, his position… that, you know, who… Yes, and so you guys end up having a brief dialogue. If you roll a D20, I can tell you what happens.
oh, I even have one right here. Sex?
Yeah, you don't convince him. In fact, he hands you a pamphlet and says, you should read this.
A pamph.
pamphlet. Alright.
What's the title?
Stroud. Stroud and the Human Agency Hypothesis. A critique of, you know, dragons and gods do not rule.
Are… are there any illustrations?
No, this is all, you know… No illustrations.
Is… is it… Divide it into paragraphs, or is it just dense text?
No, it's divided into paragraphs, it's a well-formed pamphlet.
Okay, I keep it for later.
Alright, okay.
I wasn't just gonna read a wall of text.
Okay.
One of the marks of the crazies?
That's cool.
Wall of text, probably, you know, lots of random capitalization, things like that.
You do find a…
dashes.
Alright, as you're going through this, you also notice a small order of the Gauntlet Shrine. And the temple's quarters. Which holds a skulled bronze frontspiece reproduction of Milo Goodbarrel's Account, Volume 1. You also see two half-orcs tending the shrine in shifts.
Do they add up to one orc?
No. But only half-orcs can crack that jokes.
I, I, I, I, I just say it in my own head. Not, not full orcs?
No, no, no, no. And, in the back wall of the same shrine, there's a large painting, nearly full height. Titled, Malfire, the Vindicator of Nature.
I mean, you do what you can.
A figure in weathered green at the engine of the forest, longbow lowered, an enormous gray wolf at his side, stars rising over his shoulder. And you notice that it's painted by Milo.
What does it mean to vindicate nature?
I don't know, vindicator of nature.
Clearly, you're not connected to nature, if you're even asking that.
Yeah, exactly.
Oh, I just revealed my ignorance. Alright, so… I bury my nose in my pamphlet.
Alright, so, so, here, Grygum… is it… so you can, like, so one of the things you could do, Joe, is if you wanted to buy any specific dwarven armor, you know. maybe get a new, a new Vaultmaster Pro 2005.
Well, I mean, okay, so I have a shield plus 1, I have some chainmail. If I could get some fancy-ass chainmail, that would be amazing.
Yes, and since you're a dwarf.
heavy armor.
I mean, how do we work this?
Just make a note of it.
Well, okay. I'll do some research and, like, you know, what the fancy armor I should be getting is.
Alright, okay, you'll figure that out, right?
You can get a mith roll train mill.
I don't know if we can afford it, though, you know?
That's true.
setup. Let me, let me do some research, and I'll, we'll…
Yeah, no, it's… I'm gonna assume you have enough money, and along the way, you might have earned enough day jobs, so as long as it kind of fits into the $9,000 budget, I'm okay with it, alright?
Okay, sounds good.
Alright. Alright. Let me see where… Okay, so you keep walking through Den, then you head south, after… after the small detour at Mirabar, because Joe, you know, Thorin wanted to see Thorin wanted to see a big… a big city of the dwarves, and Eldeth had told him about it.
I don't know how comfortable I'd be in a dwarven city as an orc.
You know, it's kind of one of those metropolitan areas where they're okay with it, and it's not like orcs don't… aren't exist, and they, you know, maybe you wouldn't be okay with it, but, like, in the Forgotten Realms, that's fine. I mean, the one city that doesn't tolerate half-orc is Silvery Moon. Okay.
I kid you not, I kid you not. We're not there, right?
Yeah, I paused just for a moment. The city of Silvery Moon in the… so, Dungeons & Dragons has gone through a long period of trying to fix the fact that Gary Gygax was a guy born in the 1960s in Wisconsin. Right? So, there's been a lot of work over the years to clean it.
Surprisingly little cheese, though.
Yes, he's spent… they've spent a lot of time over the last, you know, 30 years cleaning that up. Well, in an early version of the book for the Northern Sword Coast, which was written, sort of, 10, 15 years ago, Silvery Moon had a line Only the goodly races. So, yes.
What does that mean exactly?
That means not half orcs.
Yeah.
So… Canonically, Silvery Moon is actually, you know. Has gone through some issues. Has… is going through some issues. Oh, so, anyway, I just… just so you know, that's why. Alright, so you arrive in Triboar, right? Alright, in Triboar.
Maybe you could mark that, I… I'm having trouble spotting it.
I'm putting… I put… it's on where… where your character, where your character is.
Oh, I see that now. Alright.
It's, it's right there, where your character, yep.
Yep, got it.
Alright.
That's why I couldn't… oh, oh, no, it isn't on it. Okay, got it.
You at it? Alright, cool.
Okay. Good.
Hmm… Right. Threiber has been completely raided. One-third is still in ruins, there's memorial stones in the central square, it's a caravan economy, it's hot from the rebuild. So this has been, like, completely destroyed. This was definitely one of the areas that got heavily impacted. You… as you're coming in from the north, you notice past the memorial square before an inn, with recently laid flagstones around a cairn of silver… fieldstones. Naming the Triboar dead. 243 names. You notice that it's crowded for its size? Caravans, staging, traders, pilgrims… Concordant order nights, the occasional Lord's Alliance Courier, Caring Rebuild permits, you're kind of blending into this… this area. So as you're going through this, you overhear… you overhear every trade route rumor for the last 200 miles, and drovers, teamsters, and outriders speak of the shadow werebear who haunts the caravan trails north of Yartar. The image is consistent. A kenku, hooded in black, hovering a foot off the ground, who appears at a distance and is gone before anyone can call. One of them says, the Ardragon, my granddad called him, the one who used to fly the routes for the Black Network network. Used to steal anything not nailed down. Then something happened out east. Now he's a… a what? A ranger? There's, like, stops banded, takes nothing, doesn't speak, mimics a hawk, and rides the next thermal. And then somebody says, we don't pay him, we leave a coin on a rock, and he never picks it up.
Something a good pair.
Yeah, yep, yep. Okay. Okay, one of the things you notice is you're going drunk at an inn. One voice is hid, talking to himself in two voices. One voice is his, the other is younger and answers question, the first voice doesn't ask. There's another guy at the bar looking at him, strange, like, odd.
Does he have earbuds in?
No, he doesn't have earbuds. Alright. And, the badminton. And So, and, and again, another, another half-orc, surprisingly, named Kestler, is overnighting at the Mountain's Mouth. He keeps a small Bahamut shrine, shrine. When he sees you, his face lights up. You're going south! You oughta know, there's a temple! The brother who keeps it stopped writing five years ago. I keep a small house down the road from him. I have not seen him in three years. The temple fire still burns. I don't know what that means. I would very like much to know.
It burns without being tended.
Yes? Would you promise to take a written note to him?
Oh, tis an omen! I shall certainly visit the temple, and I will bring your note.
Joe, you see this guy talking to himself, you know, do you buy him a drink? Does Thorin buy him a drink, or does Thorin kind of just let him be, you know, strangers… strangers being strangers?
Here, let me figure that out. I buy him a drink.
Alright, everybody roll an insight check.
what did I do? Insight.
25.
for some reason, it didn't connect… oh, I didn't install the right, like…
You roll the 5, Joe.
I rolled a 5, but, like, what is the extension I gotta install for the, like, to have it, like, automatically?
It's… It's… it's…
beyond money?
Yep, there you go.
What is it called? Wait, is it the… is it a… is it a Roll20 extension? 3 Beyond. Right. I'll figure it out.
Alright, and, and so… Right, so, somebody who's, sitting next to him says. Yeah, that's Eldred. He ran courier, Triboar to Sundabar in the war, came back from his last run two summers past, and he was both of them. We feed him, and we don't ask. Right? And as you're listening to him, you realize that the second voice… who rolled over… who rolled over 14?
Me. Right.
Alright, so, Zalthir and Grygum noticed that the voice sounds like Elred's, but… doesn't. It's kind of his and not him, sort of… Something… there's some kind of madness about him. Alright.
Let's see, I'm concerned that there might be some kind of a magical possession or something of those lines going on here.
Alright. What do you… what do you use to detect?
Let me see, do I have any relevance…
Right, so, so, so by… okay, you're about to do that. Roll an insight check.
Huh.
So you're in a tavern, and you see all sorts of people who are hurt and wounded, and you're about to roll an insight check to figure out whether this guy's got a… is kind of mad. take them outside? Do you like, like… Or you're going… how do you want to handle it, is my point. Like, I'm not saying you can't do it, I just want to…
Well… So… I'm… I'm just observing from the sidelines, really.
Oh, okay.
I haven't yet started a conversation with him. He seems to be having quite a successful conversation with himself.
Right, so the one thing you do get the hint of is that he exhibits the same similar kinds of madness that you saw throughout the Underdark.
Oh, I, I should have, I should have realized that.
Right.
Thank you.
Like, whatever was going on in the Underdark seems to be bleeding through into the Overbright. Just to be clear…
You mean he's acting weird, not that he's sprouting mushrooms.
No, no, yeah, he's asking insane, not that he's sprouting mushrooms. No, no, no, he's not been infected by zugat… no spores.
Okay, that was going to be my next question.
No, no sports, no sports.
Is anybody else acting odd? I take a broader look around.
Not, not particularly. While you're there, in your… in the… in Triboar, Glabbagool is given an entire cheese wheel of cheese. The innkeeper gives him as a curiosity. Like, the innkeeper's like… and Glabbagool's delighted.
What is he gonna do with this, huh?
He takes the wheel of cheese, and he just dissolves it. He goes, hmm, this is very good.
Has he ever had cheese?
Meanwhile, Nate… What?
Glabbagool, have you had cheese before?
Well, I mean, now that he's been traveling with you in the big, wide world, I presume you guys have given him real food, like, kind of things, or…
Yeah, I just hope he, you know, does okay with dairy.
Yes, he does.
Oh, okay.
Right? I mean, he's a gray ooze. Then he pauses and says. Why wouldn't you be good with dairy? Is dairy bad for people?
Some, some people, don't, don't digest it well.
Meanwhile, by the way, Glabbagool is keep pestering Zalthir about turning into a shadow monk. Right? And periodically tries to demonstrate how he can walk, but it's really painful to watch.
Keep at it.
He's very excited about it. It's like, I've made progress today, and it's kind of like… Well, imagine a blob, kind of.
Give it time, you just have to level up.
Yeah, oh, okay.
Good, I… yep.
Oh, go on, I have something afterward on here.
Okay, go, I'm done.
Oh, oh, okay. So you said there's a lot of, a lot of injured. Are, are these, are there people I, I could usefully heal?
Yes, you could use fully heal for a few days.
Oh, okay, so, I, I, I, I do, you know, a ser… ceremonial, mass healing word, and, et cetera.
Right, the clerics of Bahamut… the local Bahamutian clerics are very pleased and want to know where you stand on the only question of the age. The fact that you don't know it is actually… is actually to be expected.
Well, I'm, I'm, I'm in favor of our great Lord Bahamut, and, and, apple pie, and I would like to know what the question is.
Like, half of the…
Nope.
Right, so, you know…
That's the answer.
A third of the audience is frustrated and leaves, another third of the audience goes, deist! And another third of the audience is really happy and wants to hang out with you.
I asked the third who wants to hang out with me what the question.
He goes, you understand what is the critical question. At the game of chess, what happened? Was it Bahamut? Was it Protanther? Or was it human agency? And you clearly, you clearly understood what it is. It was the great and glorious power of Bahamut that directed everything. Protanther and Stroud were merely agents.
Are we not all the playthings of fate?
Exactly! That's exactly what we believe! And it's the Stroudites and the Protanthians who wish to disagree!
Yes, and the fact that there is no gigantic chessboard, may, may lead one to wonder whether there should be a giant die with which the gods may, play, play games with, we mortals.
If one of them goes, that is heretically close to the Protanther Doctrine.
But, but the differences between Bahamut and Protanther are Legion.
Right. Alright, so, after this, you end up in Waterdeep. Alright, so in Waterdeep, you can buy pretty much whatever you want. So, if there's any… you don't have to tell me now, but if there's something magical you wish to buy. You can find it in Waterdeep. Pretty much… pretty much anything you… you can… Apparently, one downside is Glabbagool has to stay in the bag in the entire water jeep visit, because No oozes in Waterdeep.
Oh.
Alright, so…
Wait, why not?
Could… could we disguise him? Could I use a spell for that?
Yeah, yeah, he could stay in his bag.
I mean, can we take a stand in solidarity?
Yeah, but you won't be able to get.
Very species, I'm just saying.
Yeah, your sense of moral outrage is recognized, I'm just, you know…
But, sorry, doesn't he stay in his bag anyway?
Yeah, I'm just saying, like, he can't come out, like, he's gonna be, like, staring out of his eye with, like, two little eyeballs.
I thought he… that was all he did anyway.
Yeah, I know, usually though they're big eyeballs.
Sometimes he comes out to eat wheels of cheese.
Yes.
Okay, so minimize cheese temporarily. Not ideal, but…
Yeah, yep. But…
I want to buy some cheese.
Yeah.
Alright. Okay, as you're walking around, I mean, Stroud is everywhere. Like, there are statues in the castle road, shows Stroud and Protanther mid-game, bronze slightly larger than life, the chessboard between them rendered in inlaid marble.
I like it.
Do you feel some sort of connection to him for some reason?
There's a small brass plaque that says, this is the position, the move is yours.
I mean, of course, the game has been studied for years.
Yep, yep, yep, yep.
If. If only Protanther had, had, had moved his, his, his Rook, all, all, all could have been, all could have, all could have gone another way.
And everybody looks, of course, you immediately discover that it's once again. the only question of the age, and you've clearly been, you know, people start to wonder, where do you stand on the question of the age? But before we go down that path, Daz, knows that he could get Volume 3 of Milo Goodbarrel's Account of the War of the Dragons. And, at Rishaal the Pageturner. And as he hits there, he arrives there, above the desk, hangs the framed original painting from Milo's last book signing, right? Visibly, the artwork that made the thing a scent… a hit. Rishaal is here and says, well… When he sees Daz reach for Volume 3, because Daz only had Volumes 1 and 1, he goes, he delivered Volume 3 9 months ago, sales had declined when he came to town for the siting, but the painting brought them back, real-world fiction enthusiasts, you understand. They are exasperating, but they buy 3 copies of everything. You see an iconic image of Stroud, Milo, Malfire, Whistler hovering a foot above the ground in his black hoodie, Kenku beak half-shadowed under the hood, one hat mimicry gesture as if quoting a line of metallic dragon speech to the other. and Rishaal goes, Fat painting saved the print run! Milo finished it two days before the signing. We had it framed by boarding. People come here for the painting and left with a book. There's also a bunch of real-world fiction fans at the back of the sharp arguing animatedly about a passage in Volume 2. And do you guys want to listen to what they're saying, or just stay away from them?
I'm just looking around for things related to Bahamut, that this is, this is related.
Daz engages in the debate, and apparently they're arguing of… one of them is saying, well, he couldn't have flown here, there, in two days from Triboar. The Weber report from the 10 days explicitly said. And the… other one goes, with the wind from the… they're basically arguing over the speed of Whistler. Right? And apparently, you know, Milo's book had variations between the printings, and they're arguing over the variations in the printings, and the details of the printings.
If only we had a primary source.
Yes, I know, I know. Then there's… there's another, running argument about Whistler's redemption arc. The fans are split. Half think Myla's account of Whistler's morally confused post-lycanthropy stage is too generous. thinks, that Milo's operational expense, cost of living, and then the other think it's, no, Milo's operational expenses, cost of living framing is a philosophical breakthrough about the impossibility of pure good heroism. Apparently that's, like, what the fans are debating.
Well, and the book has an unreliable narrator as well.
Yes, yes, right. But I'm just, just so you know that this is apparently a controversy. Was Hitler… was, was, sorry, was Whistler…
Well done! Alright.
Oh, that was… sorry, that was very terrible. Was Whistler redeemed, or, you know, was my… did… or did… was it Whistler redeemed because, you know. a good guy, or was it… was it Mildfire's, you know, brilliant phrasing of operational expenses, cost of leaving, that created a philosophical breakthrough that allowed Whistler to see a different way of taking money?
You say the real hero might have been the accountant?
Yes, I mean, you know, like, there's the pro-Milo faction, there's a pro-Whistler faction, you know, there's the Whistlerites and the Miloites, I mean, we're talking fanboyism to its.
Whistlerites. That's… I like that.
Alright, so as you're going around, You notice a sign that says, Whistler, Kenku of the First Faction, fallen at Glaziel's lair, the year of the Alliance, redeemed in life and death, may his silence speak.
All of Gabe.
No, you didn't fallen, but you realized that apparently some factions have decided that you died after you disappeared at the end of the war.
I see.
Right? Like, some have decided that it's convenient if you.
I mean, fair enough.
Right. Let's see, is there anything else that happens here?
I assume we buy lots of cool stuff.
Yes, yes, yes, you buy whatever you want.
Those are very open specifications.
Yes, you're in Waterdeep, you can buy whatever you want, but it's expensive.
It's like New Jersey.
Yes. I mean…
I wasn't as creative as Gabe, and I just got some mithril plate. I'm sure I could have dug deeper, but at the end of the day, my armor class is now 22, ain't nobody hitting me.
No.
That's what area of effect spells are for.
I'm trying to figure out…
Yeah.
I'm trying to figure out what I want. I feel like I want some sort of a… oh.
before we go down, so I'm gonna assume, like, because this could take a while, just… Well, let's go through this, and we'll get… you can get…
Do it offline?
Yeah, or do it after we go through all of this, and there'll.
synchronously.
I'm just saying… Sure, sure. Right, so that we can go through the whole thing and then get the feel of the travel, right? Alright. Alright. Alright, what does Thorin do in Waterdeep that has nothing to do with the mission? Does he visit a tavern, a shrine, a carnival?
I don't describe it.
attend a Bahamut, Castle Ward Bahamut chapter.
So, yeah, Grygum does want to visit, a Bahamut shrine or temple, but, you know, it would be good to, to visit something that's sort of adjacent to Bahamut, to, you know, recruit a little.
Okay, so you're gonna go adjacent, alright. Ben, sorry, Zalthir, You're in the biggest city, it's anything but quiet, you know, you're a dragonborn shadow monk. Do you explore the seedy side?
I mean, I'm a shadow monk. Are there other shadow monks? Like, can I do some training? Can…
Yes, and while you're there, you learn that… one of the things you learn is that the best place to get training is in Candlekeep.
Okay, can they give me some connections? Like…
And they tell you, yes, there's a guy named Khell-Vire. He's the guy.
Khell-Vire, okay.
Yes, he is the guy you want to… he is the best. The best of the best.
Can they give me, like, a letter of introduction, or some way to, like, get in on the… get a good… some sort of way of actually getting training, as opposed to just… been someone there.
Yeah, yeah, they say, of course, of course, you know, but then there's a pause and says, but the monastery has a leaky roof, and… They're… they're… it's a shakedown.
Oh, I see. How much are we talking here?
Well, I mean, roll your persuasion.
That is… maybe anything else?
You're about to be persuaded into donating.
Persuasion. Of zero.
Yeah. Cool.
Oh, good, yeah, that went well.
How much?
Four.
Alright, I rolled an 18, so it's 140 gold pieces.
Okay, I mean, can I… can it be 140 gold worth of my time to fix the leaky roof? Like…
They look at you and, you know, they go, well, you know, the problem with budgets and, like, finances is that the donation money is different from the money that we.
I pull Daz over and have him argue.
You know, if it was Whistler, he'd steal the roof tiles?
They, they look at Daz and are very confused, you know, because apparently, you know, although Waterdeep is a public, it's not… is not as prejudiced against all drow. In the same way that, Other parts of Faerûn are prejudiced against Drow. They're a little bit surprised that he's your friend.
He's really good with roofs.
Oh, you're gonna have some cast mending. They're like, you know what? They're like, so I guess Daz helps them by helping them, Fix that. Alright, and along the way. You notice a field ward street preacher, ragged and insincere, addressing any crowd that passes, shouting, The Kraken under the keep! The kraken under the keep! The chant will break, and the kraken will rise! A role in insight.
Oh, by the way, I figured out what I wanted to do now, it's too late, but I'll tell you when you're ready.
What?
Insight, huh? Okay.
Anyone roll over 13?
Thorin got a 16.
Oh, am I supposed to roll?
Yeah, well, if one of you had to roll… okay. You get the distinct impression he is right about something he cannot name. And you also notice the way he's talking in the same broken rhythm is the same as the last guy's. As Daz is looking at him, he suddenly recognizes Daz as a drow and says. phased. You came up! You came up, you will go again. You will go down again. Do not. And then keeps repeating the cycle. The kraken under the keep, the kraken under the keep, the chant will break, and the kraken will rise.
Do we have any idea what… keep…
No. But when you're going to Candlekeep, so you could always ask there, so it might be something we want to… Right?
Candlekeep? I mean, is it above water? Yes.
water.
Oh, okay, well, that makes the Kraken more likely.
Alright. So, we spent a few days there, As you're going through it, as you're going the… the… All right, so as you're… as… over the… over a few days, most of the time, Glabbagool is unnoticed, but eventually, of course. Some watch… insist to open the bag where, where, you know, Glabbagool's inside. So, Zalthir, are you gonna… Trying to bluff, or do you want to run? bribe… Joe, Thorin, do you want to choose this as an opportunity to argue for ooze rights?
I mean, obviously, always, but, okay. Yeah.
I mean, roll the D20, that's what we do here.
Okay, that's right.
10 or below.
Alright, I'm all in.
All in for…
Take a stand.
Your, your take?
Small way than May.
He's taking a stand on U's rights.
Yes.
Okay, well, you know, this is, you know, the, the, the… The, the, the, the, The…
Dawnbringer stand on whose rights? Are we a team here? Where does Dawnbringer stand on whose rights?
Dawnbringer says, you know, sentience is more than just being… is more than just being…
Right.
Exactly!
We're on the same page.
What? One day they're going to ban oozes, the next day they'll ban sentient swords!
That's a lot.
Low blow.
Right? You know, you know, one for all, you know, like, sentience is sentience! The guard realizes that he's dealing with a bunch of crazy people. Just to be clear, he's like, you've mad at, like, a bunch of crazy people, Do you want to bribe him, intimidate him? How do you want to handle the situation? Daz, do you want to grab the bag and run? Sorry, Zalthir, do you want to grab the bag and run?
Well, clearly, Thorin is distracting him. Can I just teleport away with the bag?
Yes, you can.
Okay, I'll do that.
Alright, the guard notices the bag's gone and goes, sir, sir, I think you may wanna, like, do we need to take you, like, do we need to take you to a cleric of some kind to heal you? Are you okay, sir?
I'm a cleric.
Is he with you?
Some days he's a.
Dawnbringer's like, I can do lesser restoration. The operator's all confused, being like, I can heal them.
Right, so then the guy goes, you know what, I'm gonna walk away from here, I'm like, I… But, you know, the story of the guy who argued for sentience and sentience is gonna percolate in Waterdeep, you know, there are some people…
seed.
You know, planting the seed.
I'm like, I don't see much sentience here.
Right, and just to be clear, there's a bunch of, like, people sort of staring at you, some of them are nodding their heads. Some of them are, you know, object… you know, some of them are, you know, kind of cautious. Do you kind of lean into it, or just, Walk away.
be like, I'll finish my coffee, and walk away.
Alright. Alright, so… You arrive in Daggerford! Alright, where's Daggerford? Here we go.
Oh, I figured out one of the things I want to buy.
Okay.
I want a… I want a Javelin of lightning. Here, I'm pasting a link to…
Yeah, that's fine, too.
Oh, okay.
Well, that sounds awesome.
It is awesome.
How much is it?
I gotta drop.
No, we'll stop here, we'll stop here since the… we'll stop… we'll stop here and continue next week.
Alright, well, let's just finish with the gentleman.
put it in the Discord, what I want to do with my downtime.
What do you want… well, what is it you want to do?
I want to use Dawnbringer's Lesser Restoration to go find some orphans and actually heal them. We're gonna be do-gooders. But we'll bond. Over helping others.
Oh, I think that's a… that's an awesome, awesome, awesome thing. I mean, Dawnbringer's… you know. Really happy about that.
I mean, Zalthir is totally in on that, assuming there's time and all that.
Yes, no, I'm assuming he's all in on that. And yes, you again hear rumors and stories about Ardragon. And Whistler, the hero of, like, you know, it's all over the map. And, while you're there, you do overhear, you know, as you guys are walking around healing people, you do hear a story From a Zhentarim. It says… Does he say? No, I'm sorry, I take it back. Alright, so, so that's, that's just, that's where we'll stop here. All right, guys? I hope you're enjoying this.
Thank you, Kostadis.
Bye.
Alright, bye.